hardware does the same basic funcs on all computers: data io, processing and storing data. 

Input - writes data to memory
Output - reads data from memory
memory - stores data
control - sends signals that determine the operation of the other components. Control and datapath are commonly together and called a processor.
datapath - performs computations - the datapath is where data is transformed via computations like addition or subtraction. Control and datapath are commonly together and called a processor. 

### Through the Looking Glass
The most fascination IO device is probably the graphics display. Most personal mobile devices use liquid crystal displays (LCDs) to get a thin low power display. The LCD is not the source of light; instead it controls the transmission of light. A typical LCD includes rod-shaped molecules in a liquid that form a twisting helix that bends light entering the display, from either a light source behind the display or less often from reflected light. The rods straighten out when a current is applied and no longer bend the light. Since the liquid crystal meterial is between two screens polarized at 90 degrees, the light cannot pass through unless it is bent. Today, most LCD displays use an "active matrix" that has a tiny transistor switch at each pixel to control current precisely and make sharper images. A red-green-blue mask associated with each dot on the display determines the intensity of the three color components in the final image; in a color active matrix LCD, there are three transistor switches at each point.

The computer hardware support for graphics mainly consists of a 

raster refresh buffer - or frame buffer - to store the bit map.

The image to be represented onscreen is stored in the frame buffer, and the bit pattern per pixel is read out to the graphics display at the refresh rate. 

### Touchscreen 
PCs use LCD displays, the tablets and smartphones of the post pc era have replaced the keyboard and mouse with touch sensitive displays, which has the wonder ui advantage of users pointing directly at what they are interested in. 

While there are a wariety of ways to implement a touch screen, many tablets today use capacitive sensing. Since people are electrical conductors, if an insulator like glass is covered with a transparent conductor, touching distorts the electrostatic field of the screen, which results in a change in capacitance. This technology can allow multiple touches simultaneously, which recognizes gestures that can lead to attractive user interfaces. 

### Opening the Box

integrated circuit - also called a chip - a device containing millions of transistors

Central processor unit - CPU - also called the processor - the active part of the computer which contains the datapath and control and which adds numbers, tests numbers, signals I/O devices to activate and so on. 

The processor logically comprises two main components - datapath and control - the respective brawn and brain of the processor. 

The datapath performs arithmetic operations, and control tells the datapath, memory, and IO devices what to do according to the wishes of the instructions of the program. 

Memory is built from DRAM chips, DRAM stands for dynamic random access memory. Multiple DRAMs are used together to contain the instructions and data of a program. 

DRAM - memory built as an integrated circuit, it provides random access to any location. Access times are 50 nanoseconds and cost per gigabyte in 2012 was $5 to $10

Cache Memory - can be found inside the processor, a small fast memory that acts as a buffer for the DRAM memory. The non technical definition of cache is a safe place for hiding things) Cache is built using a different memory technology, static random access memory (SRAM) SRAM is faster but less dense, and hence more expensive, than DRAM. SRAM and DRAM are two layers of the memory hierarchy.

Instruction set architecture - sometimes just called architecture - is the abstract interface between the hardware and the lowest level software that encompasses all the information necessary to write a machine language program that will run correctly, including instructions, registers, memory access, IO and so on. 

Application Binary Interface - ABI - The user portion of the instruction set plus the operating system interfaces used by application programmers. It defines a standard for binary portabiity across computers. 

Implementation - hardware that obeys the architecture abstraction. 

An instruciton set architecture enables a machine language program to run on different hardware implementations. 
WO instruction set architecture we would have to write a different machine language program for each unique hardware implementation. 

Main Memory - primary memory - holds programs while they are running, typically consists of DRAM in todays computers. 

Secondary Memory - Nonvolatile memory used to store programs and data between runs; typically consists of flash memory in PMDs and magnetic disks in servers. 

Magnetic Disk - also called a hard disk - rotating platters with a magnetic recording material. 

Flash Memory - a nonvalatile semiconductor memory. It is cheaper and slower than DRAM but more expensive per bit and faster than magnetic disks. 

### Communicating with Other Computers
advantages of a network
- communication
- resource sharing 
- nonlocal access 

Ethernet is the most popular type of network. It can be up to a kilometer long and transfer at up to 40 GB/s. LAN are likely to be used in a home or office building. 

WAN are the backbone of the internet. Usually based on optical fibers and are leased from telecom companies. 

A WAN extended over hundreds of kilometers that can span an entire continent. 




