
Transistor - is simply an on/off switch controlled by electricity.

VLSI - Very Large Scale Integrated Circuit - an integrated circuit with hundreds to thousands to millions of transistors

For 35 years the industry has consistenly quadrupled capacity every 3 years, resulting in an increase in excess of 16K times!

Integrated circuits are made up of transistors, markedly not, vacuum tubes.

Integrated circuits are made of silicon which is found in sand, 

silicon does not conduct electricity well so it is a semi conductor. 

With a special chemical process, it is possible to add materials to to silicon that allow tiny areas to transform into one of three devices: 

- excellent conductors of electricity using either copper or aluminum wire,
- excellent insulators from electricity (like plastic sheathing or glass)
- areas that can conduct or insulate under special conditions (as a switch)

Wafer - a slick from a silicon ingot no more than 0.1 inches thick, used to create chips

defect - a microscopic flaw in a wafer or in patterning steps that can result in the failure of the die containing that defect. 

Yield - the percentage of good dies on a wafer

The cost of an integrated circuit rises quickly as the die size increases, fewer dies fit on a wafer and also the yield is lower, I guess easier to fuck up a big one. To reduce the cost, using the next generation process shrinks a large die 

shrinking the size of transistors increases the yield of a die.

Once you've found good dies, they are connected to the input/output pins of a package, using a process called bonding. These packaged parts are tested a final time, since mistakes can occur in packaging, and then they are shipped to customers. 

- With high volumes the manufacturing process can be tuned to a particular design, increasing the yield. 

- It is not less work to design a high volume part than a low volume part. 

- the masks used to make the chip are expensive, so the cost per chip is lower for high volumes

- engineering development costs are high and largely independent of volume, thus, the development cost per die is lower with high volume parts. 

- high volume parts do not necessarily have smaller die sizes, it just makes sense to do a high volume since dev is so expensive per design.


