

Programmers want unlimited and fast memory. Computer Architecture can try to create that illusion. 

Suppose you were a student writing a term paper on important historical developments in computer hardware. You are sitting at a desk in a library with a collection of books that you have pulled from the shelves and are examining. You find that several of the important computers that you need to write about are described in the books you have, but there is nothing about the EDSAC. Therefore, you go back to the shelves and look for an additional book. You find a book on early British computers that covers the EDSAC. Once you have a good selection of books on the desk in front of you, there is a high probability that many of the topics you need can be found in them, and you may spend most of your time just using the books on the desk without returning to the shelves. Having several books on the desk in front of you saves time compared to having only one book there and constantly having to go back to the shelves to return it and take out another.

his underlies both the way in which you did your work in the library and the way that programs operate. The principle of locality states that programs access a relatively small portion of their address space at any instant of time, just as you accessed a very small portion of the library's collection. There are two different types of locality:

Temporal locality (locality in time): 
if an item is referenced, it will tend to be referenced again soon. If you recently brought a book to your desk to look at, you will probably need to look at it again soon.

Spatial locality (locality in space): 
if an item is referenced, items whose addresses are close by will tend to be referenced soon. For example, when you brought out the book on early English computers to learn about the EDSAC, you also noticed that there was another book shelved next to it about early mechanical computers, so you likewise brought back that book and, later on, found something useful in that book. Libraries put books on the same topic together on the same shelves to increase spatial locality. We'll see how memory hierarchies use spatial locality a little later in this chapter.

We take advantage of the principle of locality by implementing the memory of a computer as a memory hierarchy. A memory hierarchy consists of multiple levels of memory with different speeds and sizes. The faster memories are more expensive per bit than the slower memories and thus are smaller.

The figure below shows that the minimum unit of information that can be either present or not present in the two-level hierarchy is called a block or a line;


