Computer architects have long saught to create powerful computers simply by connecting many existing smaller ones. This golden vision is the fountainhead of multiprocessors. Ideally, customers order as many processors as they can afford and receive a commensurate amount of performance. Thus multi processor software must be designed to work with a variable number of processors. As mentioned in ch1, energy has become the overriding issue for both microprocessors and datacenters. Replacing large inefficient processors with many smaller efficient processors can deliver better performance per joule both in large and in the small, if software can efficiently use them. Thus improved energy efficiency joins scalable performance in the case for multiprocessors. 

High performance can mean greater throughput for independent tasks, called task-level parallelism or process-level-parallelism. These tasks are independent single threaded applications 

Task level or process level parallelism is where we run independent programs simultaneously. 

Parallel processing Program - a single program that runs on multiple processors simultaneously. 

Multiprocessors have been shoved into the spotlight because the energy problem means that future increases in performance will primarily come from explicit hardware parallelism rather than much higher clock rates or vastly improved CPI. 

cores == processors 

multicore processors == multi processor processors

The number of cores is expected to increase with Moore's Law. These multicores are almost always Shared Memory Processors (SMPs) as they usually share a single physical address space. 

Virtually all microprocessors today in desktops and servers are multicore. 

Concurrent software can run on serial hardware, such as operating systems for uniprocessors, or on parallel hardware, such as an os on the more recent Intel Core i7.The same is true for sequential software, a programmer can write a matrix multiply sequentially or can write multi process code and run it on a multiprocessor. 

parallel processing program - concurrent software program

parallel software - programs running in parallel


