
one categorization of parallell hardware proposed in the 1960s is still used today. It was based on the num of instruction streams the number of data streams. 

A conventional uniprocessor has a single instruction stream and single data stream - SISD

Conventional multiprocessor has multiple instruction streams and multiple data streams, MIMD

SPMD - Single program multiple data - the normal way to program for a multi-processor machine. We do not write a separate program for each core. 

Tasks are split up and run simultaneously on multiple processors with different input in order to obtain results faster. 

The closest we can come to multiple instrction streams and single data stream (MISD) processor might be a "stream processor" that would perform a series of computations on a single data stream in a pipelined fashion. 
The inverse os MISD is much more popular. SIMD computers operate on vectors of data. For example, a single SIMD instruction might add 64 numbers by sending 64 data streams to 64 ALUS to form 64 sums within a single clock cycle. 

The subword parallel instructions are another example of SIMD; SSE acronym from Intel, the middle S actually stands for SIMD

SIMD - the same instruction applied to many data streams, as in a vector processor.

Program Counter - PC - emanates instructions

A sequential application might be compiled to run on serial hardware organized as a SISD or in parallel hardware that was organized as a SIMD.

SIMD works best with arrays in loops, 
you would want MIMD for case or switch statements. 

Data Level Parallism - parallelism achieved by performing the same operation on independent data, 

SIMD in x86: Multimedia Extensions:
MMX - Multimedia Extensions of the x86 in 1996

SSE - Streaming SIMD Extensions - SSE - 

AVX - Advanced Vector Extensions (AVX) - AVX supports simultaneous execution of four 64 bit floating point numbers. 

Now there are hundreds of AVX and SSE Instructions. 

### Vector
An older more elegant interpretation of SIMD is called a vector architecture. Closely identified with computers designed by Seymour Cray in the 1970s. 
Great for problems with lots of data level parallism. 

pipelined execution units - ??

A key feature of vector artchitectures is therefore a set of vector registers. A vector architecture might have 32 vector registers, each with 64, 64 bit elements. 


