### Remove Unecessary Software
We should work with the bare minimum we need for a functional system. 

Web servers should just have webserver stuff. 

Some dev may get on there and decide that he wants to install his IDE and a web browser, since these add ons are not official they are never maintained and then become outdated.

### Remove All Unessential Services
Turning OS services off is a pain. They are often not labelled well. Determine the network ports on which the system is actually listening for network connections. Many OS have built in utilities to do this, such as netstat on Microsoft, but we can also use nmap.

```
nmap <ip address>
```

it will show you alsl the ports

Port 22 - Remote access to the system, secured with secure shell

Port 53 - Domain Name system (DNS) which translates friendly names to IP addresses

Port 80 - HyperText Transfer Protocol - which serves web content

Port 443 - HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) which serves web pages secured with secure sockets Layer (SSL) and or transport security layer (TLS)

### Alter Default Accounts
A common weakness is standard accounts. The default accounts may have liberal permissions.

If we allow these accounts to keep their default settings we may be leaving the proverbial doors open.

### Apply the Priniciple of Least Privilege
We only allow a the least needed perms.
On Unix and Linux based systesm sudo access is carefully guarded, On windows not so, the default is to guve users more control. 
There are more threats at MS because it has the largest market share.
This will often causes issues however when your users can't install software, so be prepared for this.

### Perform Updates
You want to delay updating long enough that you know the patch is good, but not so long that you leave your vulnerabilities open for haxors
Patching your system before connecting it to the network will protect you. 
You are often vulnerable right after you install your system and before you patch. 

### Turn on Logging and Auditing
turn on logging
actually read your logs


