TJX Companies, a retailor operating more than 2000 stores under TJ Maxx, Marshalls, Winnders, Homesense, TK Maxx, Home Goods etc. 

It was later announced that data regarding sales transactions for 2003 as well as May through December 2006 had been exposed with an estimated total of 45 million to 200 million debt and credit card numbers havingbeen stolen.

First was an attach on the wireless network used to communicate between handheld price checking devices, cash registers and the stores computers. The system used the 802.11b wireless protocol to communicate and WEP (Wired equivalent privacy) encryption to secure the transmission media. WEP is an outdated encyption protocol with well known weaknesses and was rendered obsolete in 2002.

After the system was compromised the attackers were able to create their own accounts and acess the stolen data directly from the internet. This was possible due to the lack of firewalls and encryption on sensitive portions of the TJX network.

### Software Development Vulnerabilities

buffer overflows, race conditions, input validation attacks, authenticatino attacks, authorization attacks and cryptographics attacks.

A great resource is CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) at Carnegie Mellon University.

### Buffer Overflows

### Authentication Attacks
use strong passwords
you should not perform authetication steps on the client side, they can be attacked here, 

### Authorization Attacks
we should authenticate against a remote server or on the hardware of the device.

Ween we are authorizign a user for some activity, we should do so using the principle of least privilege. 

### Cyyptographic Attacks
cryptography is easy to implement badly and this can give us a false sense of security.

### Web Security
client side and server side attacks

# Client Side Attacks
exploit the software loaded on the clients, social engineering attacks

###Cross Site Scripting
(XSS) is an attack carried out by placing code in the form of a scripting langugae into a web page, or other media that is interpreted by a client browser, like flash and some types of video files. 

They embed the attack into the site (perhaps into a comment in the comments section)

### Cross Site Request Forgery
(XSRF) is similar to XSS in a general sense. The attacker places a link, or links to a web page in such a way that they will be automatically executed, to start some activity in a page where the user is currently authenticated. Maybe to add an item to the shopping cart or to transfer money from one bank account to another. 

### ClickJacking
putting a fake see through thing on top of some other thing that the user will click and jacking their click

You definitely want to update your browser whenever you can.

NoScipt - add on for Firefox, blocks most web page scripts by default and allows only those that we specifically enable. 

### Server Side Attacks

