For practice with Python pickling

The pickle module implements binary protocols for serializing and dserializing a Python object structure. 
Pickling is a process whereby a Python object hierarchy is converted into a byte stream, and "unplickling" is the inverse operation, whereby a byte stream (from a binary file or bytes-like object) is converted back into an object hierarchy. 
Pickling and unpickling is alternaticely known as serialization, marshalling, flattening etc.

The pickle module is not secure against erroneous or maliciously constructed data. Never unpickle data received from an untrusted or unauthenticated source. 

Python has a more primitive serialization module called marshal, but in general pickle should always be the preferred way to serialize Python objects. marshal exists primarily to support Pythons .pyc files. 

The pickle module differs from marshal in several significant ways: 
- the pickle module keeps track of the objects it has already serialized, so that later references to the same object won't be serialized again. marshal doesn't do this.

This has implications both for recursive objects and object sharing. Recursive objects are objects that contain references to themselves. These are not handled by marshal, and in fact, attemoting to marshal recursive objects will crash your Python interpreter. Object sharing happens when there are multiple references to the same object in different places in the object hierarchy being serialized. pickle stores stucj objects only once, and ensures that all other references point to the master copy. Shared objects remain shared, which can be very important for mutable objects. 

- marshal cannot be used to serialize user-defined classed and their instances. pickle can save and restore class instances transparently, however the class definition must be importable and live in the same module as when the object was stored. 

- the marshal serialization format is not guaranteed to be portable across Python versions. Because its primary job in life is to supprt.pyc files, the Python implementers reserve the right to change the serialization format in non-backwards compatibles ways should the need arise. The pickle serialization format is guaranteed to be backwards compatible across Python releases provided a compatible pickle protocol is chosen and pickling and unpickling code deals with Python 2 and Python 3 type differences if your data is crossing that unique breaking change language binary.

There are funcdamental differences between the pickle protocols and JSON.
- JSON is a text serializatio format (it outputs unicode text, althought most of the time it is then encoded to utf-8), while pickle is a binary serialization format.
- JSON is human-readable, while pickle is not
- JSON is interoperable ad widely used outside of the Python ecosystem, whilch pickle is Python specific. 
- JSON, be default, can only represent a subset of the Python built-in types, and no custom classes, pick can representan extremly large number of Python types (many of them automatically, by clever usage of Pythons introspection facilities; complax cases can be tackled by implementing specific object APIs)

### Data Stream Format
The data format used by pickle is python specific. This has the advantage that there are no restrictions imposed by external standards such as JSON or XDR (which can't represent pointer sharing) however it means that non python programs may not be able to reconstruct pickled python objects. 

Be default, the pickle data format uses a relatively compact binary representation. If you need optimal size characteristics, you can efficiently compress pickled data. 

The module pickletools contains tools for analyzing data streams generated by pickle.pickletools source code has extensive comments about opcodes used by pickle protocols.

There are currenlty 5 different protocols which can be used for pickling. The highter the protocol used, the more recent the version of Python needed to read the pickle produced. 

Note: serialization is a more primitie notion than persistence; although pickle reads and writes file objects, it does ot handle the issue of naming persisten objects, nor the even more complicated issue of concurrent access to persisten objects. The pickle module can transform a complex object into a byte stream and it can transorm the byte stream into an object with the same internal structure. Perhaps the most ovious thing to do with these byte streams is to write them onto a file, but it is also conceivable to send across a network or store them in a database. The selve module provides a simple interface to pickle and unpickle objects on DBM-style database files. 

