All video codecs use data compression, of which there are two kinds. Lossless, and lossy.

CinemaDNG is probably the most widely supported lossless video format. Cinema DNG (Digital Negative) is a format designed by Adobe and is comparable to shooting in Raw. Users seems disappointed that the format is not as open as Adobe had claimed it would be. It's a container, which is a set of raw images, accompanied by audio and metadata. The image stream can be stored useing frame-based wrapping in an MXF file, 

DNG is Adobes proprietary standard that was created to store image data in a generic highly compatible format, unlike RAW files that have specific formats based on manufacturer and camera type. It seems like the DNG format fell out of favor in the industry at some point at least for high end professionals. 

### Uncompressed Video
Uncompressed video is digital video that either has never been compressed or was generated by decompressing previously compressed digital video. It is commonly used by video cameras, video monitors, video recording devices (including general purpose computers), and in video processors that perform functions such as image resizing, image rotations, deinterlacing, and text and graphics overlay. It is conveyed over verious types of baseband digital video interfaces, suc as HDMI, DVI, DisplayPort, and SDI. Standards also exist for carriage of uncompressed video over computer networks. 

Some HD video cameras output uncompressed video, whereas others comptess the video using a lossy compression method such as MPEG or H.264. In any lossy compression process, some of the video information is removed, which creates compression artifacts and reduces the quality of the resulting decompressed video. When editing video, it is preferred to work with video that has never been compressed (or was losslessly compressed) as this maintains the best possible quality, with compression performed after completion of editing. 

### Y4M Uncompressed Video Format 
Y4M is a video file created in the YUV4Mpeg format; stores a sequence of uncompressed YCbCr images that make up the video frame by frame; used as a raw, color-sensitive video format before compressing into a more popular video format such as MPEG-2 or Matroska. (.MKV)

YUVMPEG2 is a simple file format designed to hold uncompressed frames of YCbCr video formatted as YCbCr 4:2:0, YCbCr 4:2:2 or YCbCr 4:4:4 data for the purpose of encoding, likely to MPEG-2. The part "YUV" in its name just derives from the fact that the color space YCbCr (used for coor encoding in digital media) is often falsely mixed up with the color space YUV (used in analog PAL based applications, including analog TV and video tapes).

There should always be the params frame width, frame height, and frame rate.

Data Format

A Y4M file begins with a plaintext, quasi-freeform header. The first 10 bytes are a file signature of 'YUV4MPEG2 ' (last character is a space, ASCII 0x20). Following the signature is any number of parameters preceeded by a space (ASCII 0x20). The parameters that should definitely be present are width, height, and frame rate:

    frame width: 'W' followed by a plaintext integer; example: 'W720'
    frame height: 'H' followed by a plaintext integer; example: 'H480'
    frame rate: 'F' followed by the number of frames per second, expressed as a fraction in the form numerator:denominator. Examples:
        'F30:1' = 30 FPS
        'F25:1' = 25 FPS (PAL/SECAM standard)
        'F24:1' = 24 FPS (Film)
        'F30000:1001' = 29.97 FPS (NTSC standard)
        'F24000:1001' = 23.976 FPS (Film transferred to NTSC)
    interlacing: 'I' followed by a single letter to indicate interlacing mode:
        'Ip' = Progressive
        'It' = Top field first
        'Ib' = Bottom field first
        'Im' = Mixed modes (detailed in FRAME headers)
    Parameter 'A': Pixel aspect ratio. Note that this is not the ratio of the picture as a whole, just the pixels. Examples:
        'A0:0' = unknown
        'A1:1' = square pixels
        'A4:3' = NTSC-SVCD (480x480 stretched to 4:3 screen)
        'A4:5' = NTSC-DVD narrow-screen (720x480 compressed to a 4:3 display)
        'A32:27' = NTSC-DVD wide-screen (720x480 stretched to a 16:9 display)
    Parameter 'C': Colour space
        'C420jpeg' = 4:2:0 with biaxially-displaced chroma planes
        'C420paldv' = 4:2:0 with vertically-displaced chroma planes
        'C420' = 4:2:0 with coincident chroma planes
        'C422' = 4:2:2
        'C444' = 4:4:4
    Parameter 'X': Comment. Ignored, but passed, by a YUV4MPEG2 processor.

Following the header is any number of frames coded in YCbCr format in Y-Cb-Cr plane order. Each frame begins with the 5 bytes 'FRAME' followed by zero or more parameters each preceded by 0x20, ending with 0x0A. This is then followed by the raw bytes from each plane.

The length of each frame (excluding its header) can be computed as:

    frame length = width * height * 3 / 2 (4:2:0)
    frame length = width * height * 2 (4:2:2)
    frame length = width * height * 3 (4:4:4)

  
