In a SELECT query, what is the difference between a WHERE clause and a HAVING clause?

Both a WHERE clause and a HAVING clause can be used to eliminate rows from the results of a query. The differences are:
1. The WHERE clause eliminates rows before any grouping for aggregate functions occurs while the HAVING clause elinimates groups after the grouping has been done and 

2. the WHERE clauses cannot contain an aggregate function, but the HAVING clause can.
Eg. aggregate functions such as COUNT, MIN, MAX, AVG and SUM


2. Explain why the following command would create an error, and what changes could be to fix the error:
```
SELECT V_CODE, SUM(P_Q0H) FROM PRODUCT;
```
You can't have an aggregate function there.

3. What type of integrity is enforced when a primary key is declared?
entity, ie. no part of the primary key can contain a null and the primary key values must be unique

5. Explain why it might be more appropriate to declare an attribute that contains only digits as a character data type instead of a numeric data type:
bc we don't do arithmetic on zip codes.

6. What are "referential constraint actions"?
referential constraint actions such as ON DELETE CASCADE are default actions that the DBMS should take when a DML command would result in a referential integrity constraint violation. Without referential constrain actions, DML commands that would result in a violation of referential integrity will fail with an error indicating theat the referential integrity contraint cannot be violated. Basially they maintain referential integrity after an action is performed.

GROUP BY gathers rows into collections that can be acted on by aggregate functions. 

12 what is a recursive join?
it is a join in which a table is joined to itself


