the relational join operation merges rows from two tables and returns the rows with one of the following conditions:
- have common values in common columns (natural join)
- meet a given join condition (equality or inequality)
- have common values in common columns or have no matching values (outer join)

We learned before how to use the SELECT in conjuction with WHERE to join two or more tables

example: 
```
SELECT P_CODE, P_DESCRIPT, P_PRICE, V_NAME
FROM PRODUCT, VENDOR
WHERE PRODUCT.V_CODE = VENDOR.V_CODE;
```

This is sometimes called and 'old style' join. 

- The tables in the from clause are joined from left to right, this order becomes important when you are joining 3 or more tables. 

- the number of join conditions is always equal to the number of tables being joined minus one. All join conditions are connected through an AND logical operator.

- generally the join condition will be an equality comparison of thle primary key in one tabhle and the related foreign key in the second table.

Inner Join - the traditional join in which only rows that meet a given criterion are selected. The join criterion can be an equality condition (also called a natural join or an equijoin) or an inequality condition (also called a theta join). An outer join returns not only the matching rows but the rows with unmatched attribute values for one table or both tables to be joined. The SQL standard also introduces a special type of join called a **cross join**, that returns the same result as the Cartesian product of two sets or tables.


### CROSS JOIN
```
SELECT * FROM T1, T2
```
returns the Cartesian product of t1 and t2 (old style)

```
SELECT * FROM T1 CROSS JOIN T2
```
returns the Cartesian product of t1 and t2

### JOIN USING
```
SELECT * FROM T1 JOIN T2 USING (C1)
```
Returns only the rows with matching values in the columns indicated in the USING clause

### JOIN ON
```SELECT * FROM T1 JOIN T2 ON T1.C1=T2.C1
```
Returns only the rows that meet the join condition indicated in the ON clause

### OUTER 
```
SELECT * FROM T1 LEFT OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1=T2.C1
```
Returns rows with matching values and includes all rows from the left table (T1) with unmatched values

### RIGHT JOIN	
```
SELECT * FROM T1 RIGHT OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1=T2.C1
```
Returns rows with matching values and includes all rows from the right table (T2) with unmatched values

### FULL JOIN
```
SELECT * FROM T1 FULL OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1=T2.C1
```
Returns rows with matching values and includes all rows from both tables (T1 and T2) with unmatched values

### Natural JOIN
```
SELECT columnlist FROM table1 NATURAL JOIN table2
```

You can do a natural join where the resulting table only has the specified columns like this: 
```
SELECT CUS_CODE, CUS_LNAME, INV_NUMBER, INV_DATE
FROM CUSTOMER NATURAL JOIN INVOICE;
```

You are not restricted to only two tables when doing a natural join.

Notice we didn't need any qualifiers like = or !=, we just joined the specified columns from the two tables.

### JOIN USING Clause
```
SELECT columnList FROM table1 JOIN table2 USING commonColumn
```
USING basically means that the column must exist in both tables?

Now check this, this is actually TWO joins!

```
SELECT INV_NUMBER, P_CODE, P_DESCRIPT, LINE_UNITE, LINE_PRICE
FROM INVOICE JOIN LINE USING (INV_NUMBER) JOIN PRODUCT USING (P_CODE);
```

### JOIN ON Clause
Use this when the tables have no common attribute names. There will be typically be an equality comparison expression of two columns
```
SELECT columnList FROM table1 JOIN table2 ON joinCondition

```

Join on requires a table qualifier for the common attributes. Natural JOIN and JOIN USING do not require this.

JOIN ON lets you perform a join even when the tables do not share a common attribute name. 

### Outer JOINS
An outer join returns not only the rows matching the join condition, it returns the rows with unmatched values. There are 3 types of outer joins, left, right and full. The left and right designations reflect the order in which the tables are processed by the DBMS. Remember that join operations take place two tables at a time. The first table named in the FROM clause will be the left side, and the second table named will the right side.

```
SELECT columnList FROM table1 LEFT [OUTER] JOIN table2 ON joinCondition
```





