### WHERE subqueries
The most common type of subquery, uses an inner SELECT subquery on the right side of a WHERE comparison expression. For example:
```
SELECT P_CODE, P_PRICE FROM PRODUCT
WHERE P_PRICE >= (SELECT AVG(P_PRICE) FROM PRODUCT);

```

### SUBQUERY JOIN COMBO
You can just smash these together, whatever, they're just components.
Check it out.
```
SELECT DISTINCT CUS_CODE, CUS_LNAME, CUS_FNAME
FROM CUSTOMER JOIN INVOICE USING USING (CUS_CODE)
	      JOIN LINE USING (INV_NUMBER)
	      JOIN PRODUCT USING (P_CODE)
WHERE P_CODE = (SELECT P_CODE FROM PRODUCT WHERE 
		P_DESCRIPT = 'Claw hammer');
	      
```

### HAVING SUBQUERIES
restricts the output of a GROUP BY query by applying conditional criteria to the grouped rows. For example, to list all products with a total quantity sold greater than the average quantity sold, you would write the following query:
```
SELECT P_CODE, SUM(LINE_UNITS)
FROM LINE
GROUP BY P_CODE
HAVING SUM(LINE_UNITS) > (SELECT AVG(LINE_UNITS) FROM LINE);

```
Note: let's just make sure we never confuse HAVING and USING. 
HAVING is used with groups, ie the GROUP BY command, 
USING is used with columns. 

### Multirow Subquery operators: ANY and ALL
IN basically checks for equality in a list, but what about a less than or greater than?
Again, IN is only for equality checks, it cannot do greater than, less than. 
Let's take a look at this example:
```
	SELECT P_CODE, P_QOH * P_PRICE
	FROM PRODUCT
	WHERE P_QOH * P_PRICE > ALL(SELECT P_QOH * P_PRICE FROM PRODUCT
				    WHERE V_CODE IN (SELECT V_CODE FROM VENDOR
				    		     WHERE V_STATE = 'FL'));
```

### Attribute List SubQueries
The SELECT statement uses the attributehttps://github.com/TopazLabs/videoapps/branches/all?query=developer list to indicate what columns to project in the resulting set. Those calumns can be attributes of base tables, computed attributes, or the result of an aggregate function. The attribute list can also include a subquery expression, also known as an inline subquery. A subquery in the attribute list must return one value; otherwise, an error code is raised.

You can put a subquery in the FROM clause
```
SELECT P_CODE, SALES, ECOUNT, SALES/ECOUNT AS CONTRIB
FROM (SELECT P_CODE, SUM(LINE_UNITS * LINE_PRICE) AS SALES,
FROM LINE
GROUP BY P_CODE);
```

### CORRELATED SUBQUERIES
Until now all subqueries you have learned execute independently. That is, each subquery in a command sequence executes in a serial fasion, one after another. The inner subquery executes first; its output is used by the other query, which then executes until the last outer query finishes.

A **corellated subquery** executes once for each return in the outer query, similar to a nested loop.

```
SELECT INV_NUMBER, P_CODE, LINE_UNITS
FROM LINE LS
WHERE LS.LINE_UNITS > (SELECT AVG(LINE_UNITS)
		FROM LINE LA
		WHERE LA.P_CODE = LS.P_CODE);
```

### IN Subqueries
If you want to do a comparison not just to 1 value, but to a list of values (idk, like a group, for example, all the products that have the word 'hammer' in it), then you would create a subquery using the IN keyword.

```
SELECT DISTINCT CUS_CODE, CUS_LNAME, CUS_FNAME
FROM CUSTOMER JOIN INVOICE USING (CUS_CODE)
		JOIN LINE USING (INV_NUMBER)
		JOIN PRODUCT USING (P_CODE)
WHERE P_CODE IN (SELECT P_CODE FROM PRODUCT
		WHERE P_DESCRIPT LIKE '%hammer%'
		OR P_DESCRIPT LIKE '%saw%')
```
### FROM Subqueries
FROM takes tables as args. SELECT can return a virtual table, so its nbd to just put a SELECT in there where you would have put a table.

### Attribute List Subqueries
The SELECT statement uses the attribute list to indicate what columns to project in the resulting set. 
```
SELECT P_CODE, P_PRICE, (SELECT AVG(P_PRICE) FROM PRODUCT)
AS AVGPRICE,
P_PRICE - (SELECT AVG(P_PRICE) FROM PRODUCT) AS DIFF
FROM PRODUCT;
```

This is known as an **inline subquery**

ok, let's check it out, 

```
SELECT P_CODE, SUM(LINE_UNITS * LINE_PRICE) AS SALES, 
(SELECT COUNT(*) FROM EMPLOYEE) AS ECOUNT,
SUM(LINE_UNITS*LINE_PRICE)/(SELECT COUNT(*) FROM
EMPLOYEE) AS CONTRIB
FROM LINE
GROUP BY P_CODE;
```

OK, so let's recap here. 
We remember that after the SELECT keyword, we take an attribute list. 
So, for any attribute, you can sub a subquery, big deal, whatever, it's substitution.

And that's basically Atrribute List Subqueries.

And this is different from a **correlated suquery** which will execute once for every row returned.


ok, so here's our example for correlated subqueries, 

We want to know all product sales in which the untils sold value is greater than the average units sold value for that product (as opposed to for all products)

so here's the protocol: 
1. computer the average units sold for a product
2. comptuer the average computer in step 1 to the units sold in each sale row, and then select only the rows in which the number of units sold is greater. 

so check it:
```
SELECT INV_NUMBER, P_CODE, LINE_UNITS
FROM LINE LS
WHERE LS.LINE_UNITS > (SELECT AVG(LINE_UNITS)
			FROM LINE LA
			WHERE LA.P_CODE = LS.P_CODE);
```

OK, I think basically the trick here is that the new SELECT query has to be in the WHERE statement at the end. 

If it's in a WHERE, then basically it is taking as input everything from the outer query, and then we run  in query and use each form inner query and feed it to the where conditional. 
I get it.


