## Date and Time Functions


### Oracle
**TO_CHAR** - returns a character string or a formatted string from a date value.

**TO_DATE** - takes a string and a date format mask and returns a DATE object.

**SYSDATE** - returns todays date

**ADD_MONTHS** - adds a number of months or years to a date.

**LAST_DAY** - returns the date of the last day of the month given in a date

### MySQL
Date_Format - returns a character string or a formatted from a date value.

YEAR - returns a four digit year

MONTH - returns a two digit month code

DAY - returns the number of the day

ADDDATE - adds a number of days to a date

DATE_ADD - add a number of days, months, or years to a date. Is more rubust than ADDDATE

### String Functions
Concatenation - 
Oracle uses ||
Access and MS SQL Server use +
MySQL uses CONCAT()

### Conversion Functions
conversion functions allow you to take a value of a given data type and convert it to the equivalent value in another data type. In Section Date and Time functions, you learned about two basic Oracle SQL conversion functions. TO_CHAR and TO_DATE. Note that the TO_CHAR function takes a date value and returns a character string representing a day, a month, or a year.

Numeric or Date to Character: 
Oracle uses TO_CHAR	
Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MySQL use CAST
Ms SQL Server and MySQL use CONVERT

### Switch

This function compares an attribute or expression with a series of values and returns an associated value or a default value if no match is found. 

Oracle and MS SQL Server use CASE
MySQL and Oracle use DECODE
Microsoft Access uses SWITCH




