1. What is a CROSS JOIN? Give an example of its syntax.

A CROSS JOIN is identical to the PRODUCT relational operator. The CROSS JOIN is also known as the Cartesian product of two tables. For example, 

```
SELECT * FROM CUSTOMER CROSS JOIN AGENT;
```

or 

```
SELECT * FROM CUSTOMER, AGENT
```

If you do not specify a JOIN condition when joining tables, the results will be a CROSS join or PRODUCT operation.

2. What three join types are included in the OUTER JOIN classification?

An OUTER JOIN is a type of JOIN operation that yields all rows with matching values in the join columns as well as all unmatched rows. Unmatched rows are those without matching values in the join columns. The SQL standard prescribes three different types of join operations.

- LEFT [OUTER] JOIN
- RIGHT [OUTER] JOIN
- FULL [OUTER] JOIN

The LEFT [OUTER] JOIN will yield all rows with matching values in the join columns, plus all of the unmatched rows from the **left** table. (the first table named in the FROM clause)

The RIGHT [OUTER] JOIN will yield all rows with matching values in the join columns, plus all of the unmatched rows from **right** table named in the FROM clause.

The FULL [OUTER] JOIN will yield all rows with matching values in the join columns, plus all the unmatched rows from both tables named in the FROM clause.

3. Write an example of each of the three previous joins. 
Note: all of these joins use the ON keyword to specify which columns will be returned in the join.

```
SELECT * FROM T1 LEFT OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1 = T2.C1;

SELECT * FROM T1 RIGHT OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1 = T2.C1;

SELECT * FROM T1 FULL OUTER JOIN T2 ON T1.C1 = T2.C1;
```


4. What is a subquery and what are its basic characteristics? 

The first query is known as the outer query, the second query is known as the inner query. The inner query is generally executed first. 

A subquery can appear in many places in a SQL statement:
	- as part of a FROM clause
	- to the right of a WHERE conditional expression
	- to the right of the IN clause
	- in a EXISTS operator
	- to the right of a HAVING clause conditional operator
	- in the attribute list of a SELECT clause

Let's see some examples:
```
INSERT INRO PRODUCT
SELECT * FROM P;

DELETE FROM PRODUCT 
WHERE V_CODE IN (SELECT V_CODE FROM VENDOR WHERE V_AREACODE = '615');

SELECT V_CODE, V_NAME FROM VENDOR WHERE V_CODE NOT IN (SELECT V_CODE FROM PRODUCT);
```

5. What are the three types of results a subquery can return?
	1. a single value (one row, one column)
	2. a list of values (many rows, one column)
	3. a virtual table (many rows, many columns)

6. What is a correlated subquery?
A correlated subquery is a subquery that executes once for each row returned from the outer query. This process is similar to the typical nested loop in a programming language. (The outer query is the outer loop, the inner query is the inner loop) 

This is opposite of the usual order of things. Usually the inner query will run first and then the outer query, but with a correlated subquery, the outer subquery will run first, and then the inner correlated subquery will run second (once for each row from the outer query)

8. What does it mean to say that SQL operators are set-oriented?
The description of SQL operators as set-oriented means that the commands work over entire tables at a time, notrow by row.

9. The relational set operators UNION, INTERSECT, and MINUS (EXCEPT) work properly only if the relations are union compatible. What does union compatible mean, and how would you check for this condition?

Union compatible means that the relations yield attributes with identical names and compatible data types. That is, the relation A and B have union compatibilityif both relations have the same number of attributes, and corresponding attributes in the relations have "compatible" data types.  Compatible data types do not require that the attributes be exactly identical - only that they are comparable. 


10. What is the difference between UNION and UNION ALL? Write the syntax for each.
UNION yields unique rows. In other words, UNION eliminates duplicate rows.

```
query UNION query
```

Will merge the results of the two queries, the resulting virtual table will be the set of the sum of rows from the two queries with duplicates removed.

Do not confuse this with INTERSECT, which will just return all matches from both sets, UNION will return both sets merged together with duplicates removed.

```
query UNION ALL query
```
This is like above but the unmatched rows will be returned as well. A UNION ALL operator will yield all rows of both relations, including duplicates. Notice that for two rows to be duplicated, they must have the same values in all columns.




