
Database Performance Tuning - refers to a set of activities and procedures designed to reduce the response time of the database system.
 - that is, to ensure that an end user query is processed by the DBMS in the minimum amount of time.

 Three main factors
 - CPU processing power
 - available primary memory (RAM)
 - input/output (hard disk and network) throughput

Data file - all data in a database is stored in data files.
A data file can contain rows from a single table or it can contain rows from many tables.

extent - a predefined increment of allowable size that a data file can expand to.

table space - file group - is a logical grouping of serveral data files that store data1 with similar characteristics. 

data cache - buffer cache - a shared reserved memory area that stores the most recently accessed data blocks in RAM. 

SQL cache or procedure cache - a shared reserved memory area that stores the most recently executed SQL statements or PL/SQL procedures, including triggers and functions. The SQL cache stores a "processed" version of the SQL that is ready for execution by the DBMS.

The DBMS gets the data from permanent store and puts it in RAM in order to work with the data.


IO Request - is a low level data access operation that reads or writes data to and from computer devices such as memory, hard disks, video, and printers. 
note that an IO disk read operation retrieves an entire physical disk block, generally containing multiple rows, from permanent storage to the data cache, even if you will use only one attribute from only one row.

The physical disk block size depends on the operating system and could 4K - 64K or even larger. Furthermore, the DBMS might issue a single block read request of a multiblock read request.

- Most performance tuning activities focus on minimizing the number of IO operations bc reading from the disk is way slower than reading from the cache. A hard disk is about a million times slower than reading from RAM.

Listener - the listener process listens for clients requests and handles the processing of the sql requrests to other dbms processes. Once a request is received, the listener passes the request to the appropriate user process.

User - the DBMS creates a user process to manage each client session. Therefore, when you log on to the DBMS, you are assigned a user process. This process handles all requests you submit to the server. There are many user processes, at least one per logged in client.

Scheduler - The scheduler process organizes the concurrent execution of SQL requests.

Lock manager - this process manages all locks placed on databse objects including disk pages.

Optimizer - the optimizer process analyzes SQL Queries and finds the most efficient way to access the data. 

### Database Query Optimization Modes

two principles:
- optimum execution order
- optimal access site selection (minimize the commo costs)

**Automatic Query Optimization** - doesn't require user intervention

**Manual Query Optimization** - requires a stupid programmer person

Query optimization algorithms can also be classified according to when the optimization is done. Within this timing classification, query optimization algorithms can be statics or dynamics.

**Static Query Optimization** - Takes place at compilation time. This approach is common when SQL statements are embedded in procedural programming languages such as C# or .NET

**Dyanmic Query Optimization** - happens at run time, 

**statistically based query optimization algorithm** - uses statistical information about the database. The statistics provide information about database characteristics such as size, number of records, average access time, number of requests servicesd, and number of users with access rights. These statistics are then used by the DBMS to determine the best access strategy. Sometimes we optimize the time to retrieve the first row or the last row. Minimizing the time to retrieve the first row is often used in transaction systems and interactive client environments. In these cases, the goal is to present the first several rows to the user as quickly as possible. Optimizing for the last row is typically done in embedded SQL and inside stored procedures. In these cases, the control will not pass back to the calling application until all of the data has been retrieved. 

**Dynamic statistical generation mode** - the DBMS automatically evaluates and updates the statistics after each data access operation. 

**Manual statistical generation mode** - periodically updated through a user selected utility such as IBMs RUNSTAT command which is used by DB2 DBMSs

**Rule based query optimization algorithm** - is based on a set of user defined rules to determine the best query access strategy. The rules are entered by the end user or database administrator, and they are typically general in nature.

### Database Statistics

ANALYZE - a command SQL command to gather statistics

Many vendors have their own routines to gather statistics.

IBM DB2 uses RUNSTATS while Microsoft SQL Server users the UPDATE STATISTICS procedure and provides the Auto update and Auto Create statistics options in its initialization parameters.

### Database Objects and Sample Measurements: 

Tables - 

numrows, disk blocks used, row length, number of columns in each row, number of distinct values in each column, the max value in each column, the min value in each column and columns that have indexes

Indexes - 
	number and name of columns in the index key, number of key values in the in index, number of distinct key values in the index key, histogram of key values in an index, and number of disk pages used by the index.


Environment Resources - 
	logical and physical disk block size, location and size of data files and number of extends per data fiel.


Oracle
```
ANALYZE <TABLE/INDEX> object_name COMPUTE STATISTICS;

```

MySQL
```
ANALYZE TABLE <table_name>;
```

SQL Server
```
UPDATE STATISTICS <object_name> # object_name refers to a table or a view
```

When you generate stats for a table, all related indexes are also analyzed. However you could generate statistics for a single index using the following command, where VEND_NDX is the name of the index:

```
ANALYZE INDEX VEND_NDX COMPUTE STATISTICS;
```

The more accurate your stats are the better you can execute yo queries.





