DBMS Processes A Query in Three Phases: 

1. Parsing - parses the query and chooses the access/execution plan

2. Execution - The DBMS executes the SQL query using the chosen execution plan.

3. Fetching - The DBMS fetches the data and sends the result set back to the client.

The processing for DDL statements such as CREATE TABLE is different from the processing required by DML statements

### SQL Parsing Phase

**query optimizer** - analyzes the SQL query and finds the most efficient way to access the data. This process is the most time consuming phase in query processing.

**acess plan** - the result of parsing an SQL statement.

### IO Operations

Table Scan - reads the entire table sequentially, from the first row to the last, one row at a time (slowest)

Table Access - (row id) - Reads a table row directly, using the row ID value (fastest)

Index Scan - (range) - reads the index first to obtain the row IDs and then accesses the table rows directly. Faster than a full table scan.

Index Access - Used when a table uas a unique index in a column.

Nested Loop - Reads and compares a set of values to another set of values using a nested loop style.

Merge - merges two data sets (slow)

sort - sorts a data set (slow)

### SQL Execution Phase
In this phase all IO operations indicated in the access plan are executed. When the execution plan is run, the proper locks -- if needed -- are acquired for the data to be accessed, and the data is retrieved form the data files and placed in the DBMS's data cache. All transaction management commands are processed during the parsing and execution phases of query processing.

### SQL Fetching Phase
After the parsing and execution phases are completed, all rows that match the specified condition(s) are retrieved, sorted, grouped, and aggregated (if required) Rows are returned to the client. temp table space might be used to store data. 

### Query Processing Bottlenecks
A query is broken down into a series of interdependent IO operations to be executed in a collaborative manner.

**query processing bottleneck** - a delay introduced into the processing of an IO operation that causes the overall system to slow down. 

Causes of Bottlenecks:

**CPU** - The CPU processing power of the DBMS should match the systems expected work load. A high CPU utilization might indicate the the processor speed is too slow for the amount of work performed. However, heavy CPU utilization can be caused by other factors, such as a defective component, not enough RAM (the CPU spends too much time swapping memory blocks) a badly written device driver, or a rogue process. A CPU bottleneck will not affect not only the DBMS but all processes running in the system. 

**RAM** - The DMS allocates memory for specific usages, such as data cache and SQL cache. RAM must be shared among all running processes, including the operating system and DBMS. If there is not enough RAM available, moving data among components that are competing for scarce RAM can create a bottleneck.

**Hard Disk** - disk speed == slow, current os also us hd for virtual memory, copying sections of ram to disk to make space in the ram for more urgent tasks. 

**Network** - In a databse environment, the databse server and the clients are connected via a network. All networks have a limited amount of bandwidth that is shared among all clients. When many network nodes access the network at the same time, bottlenecks are likely.


**Application code** - crappy app code and poorly designed databases can be the bottleneck.


