**index** - an ordered set of values that contains the index key and pointers. The pointers are the row IDs for the actual table rows. Conceptually a data index is similar to a book index. 

If there is no index, the DBMS will perform a full table scan and read all the rows. If there is an index (that is also analyzed) the DBMS will automatically use it. It speeds up access a lot.

If indexes are so important, then why not index every column in every table?

**Data Sparsity** - refers to the number of different values a column could have.  A column for sex can only have two possible values, so we say that that column has low Data Sparsity. 

Birthday can have many values, so that column has high data sparsity. 

Sparsity means to not have enough, so I don't know if they are getting this backwards or not,

It is usually not necessary to index a column with low sparsity, you are likely to read a high percentage of all the rows anyway, so it's not saving you much work.

**Hash Index** - A hash index is based on an ordered list of hash values. A hash algorithm is used to create a hash value from a key column. This value points to an entry in a hash table., which in turn points to the actual location of the data row. This type of index is good for simple and fast lookup operations based on equality conditions 

**B-Tree Index** - The B Tree index is an ordered data structure organized as an upside down tree, the lower level leaves of the B tree index contain the pointers to the actual data rows. B Tree indexes are self-balanced which means that it takes approximately the same amount of time to access any given row in the index. B Tree indexes are self balanced which means that it takes approximately the same amount of time to access any given row in the index. This is the default and most common type of index used in databses. The B Tree index is used mainly in tables in which column values repeat a relatively small number of times. 

**Bitmap Index** - a bitmap index uses a bit array (0s and 1s) to represent the existence of value or condition. These indexes are used mostly in data warehouse applications in tables with a large number of rows in which a small number of column values repeat many times. Bitmap indexes tend to use less space than B tree indexes because they use bits instead of bytes to store their data.

So any business database where we have stuff like first name and last name, you can assume the last name value will repeat relatively few times in comparison to the number of rows, so in this case, the most common case in business anyway, we will use a B Tree index,


