1. what is SQL performance tuning, 
SQL performance tuning describes a process on the client side that will generate and SQL query to return the correct answer in the least amount of time, using the minimum amount of resources at the server end. 

2. What is database performance tuning?

DBMS performance tuning describes a process - on the server side - the will properly configure the DBMS environment to respond to clients requests in the fastest way possible, making optimal use of the existing resources.

3. What is the focus of most performance tuning and why does that focus exist?

Most performance tuning activities focus on minimizing the number of IO operations because the IO operations are much slower than reading data from the data cache. 

4. What are databse statistics and why are they important?
The term database statistics refers to a number of measurements gathered by the DBMS to describe a snapshot of the database objects characteristics. The DBMS gathers status about objects such as tables, indexes, and available resources, such as num processors used, processor speed, temp space available, and so on. Such status are used to make critical decisions about improving the query processing efficiency.

5. How are database statistics obtained?

Database statistics can be gathered manually by the DBA or automatically by the DBMS. For example, many DBMS vendors support the SQL's ANALYZE command to gather statistics. For example, IBMs DB2 uses the RUNSTATS procedure, while Microsofts SQL server Users the UPDATE STATISTICS procedure and provides the Auto update and Auto Create Statistics options in its initialization parameters.

6. What database statistics measurements are typical of tables, indexes, and resources?
For tables, typical measurements include num rows, num disk blocks used, row length, the num columns in each row, the num distinct values in each column, the max value in each column, the min value in each column, what columns have indexes and so on.

For indexes typical measurements include the number and name of the columns in the index key, the number of key values in the index, the number of distinct values in the index key, histogram of key values in an index, etc.

For resources, typical measurements include the logical and physical disk block size, and location and size of data files, the number of extends per data file, and so on. 

8. What are the three phases of query processing?

1. Parsing
2. Execution
3. Fetching


