Well formed relations

- each table represents a single subject. 

- no data item will be unecessarily stored in more than one table

- all nonprime attributes in a table are dependent on the primary key, the entire primary key and nothing but the primary key

- each table is void of insertion, update, or deletion anomalies
 which ensures the integrity and consistency of the data.

1st Normal Form: 
Table format, no repeating groups, and PD identified. 

Second Normal Form: 
First normal form and no partial dependencies

Third Normal Form - 
Second normal form and no transitive dependencies

Boyce - Codd Normal Form - Every determinant is a candidate key (special case of 3NF)

Fourth Normal Form - 3NF and no independent multi-valued dependencies.

**Partial Dependency** - a partial dependency exists when there is a functional dependence in which the determinant is only part of the primary key

**transitive dependency** - exists when there are functional dependencies such that X->Y, Y->Z and X is the primary key.

### Conversion to First Normal Form

repeating groups - when a single key has more than one value. This is a nono. If you have these, you is not even in 1NF.

Step 1: eliminate the repeating groups

Step 2: Identify the primary key - 

Step 3: identify all dependencies

**dependency diagram** - helpful to see all the dependency relationships

**determinant** - any walue that determines other values within a row
If you have three different transitive dependencies you will have three different determinants


